okay
so hi everybody welcome to uh my webinar
oh nice all right now i see about 10
people joining
excellent if you want regular attendees
welcome good to see you again yay
if you are new please say hi to us all
right to say hi to me
camden are here and also elsa is our new
moderator
and boston welcome elsa
thank you this is so exciting i'm
excited to
see the other side of a pam dinner
webinar
yeah it's going to be fun so we see
people trickling
in so i'm gonna give it one more minute
if that's okay with
everybody in the meantime if you are
coming from europe so it's after work
grab a glass of wine and relax if you
are actually at work you know what grab
a glass of wine as well no i'm kidding
a cup of tea is good all right and say
hi to me on chat
all right i'm gonna say that hi everyone
so feel free to say hi and by the way
this webinar is pretty casual
oh hi sherry yay hey denmark
wow america welcome
denmark yes you're coming from denmark
thank you so much
natalie okay welcome and
anita well welcome back anita it was
good talking to you last time
all right lynn yay thank you so much
and saying hi really really appreciate
it okay and by the way
if you have any questions feel free to
ask
and when you enter the information
either in chat or q
a elsa will and will bring that to my
attention
okay so don't be shy don't be shy i'm
not shy can you tell
all right very good okay
i'm gonna get started and i'm gonna
share my screen if that's okay with
everybody and so elsa if you can monitor
that would be excellent
and by the way we are actually live
streaming
um to facebook community my facebook
business page and the youtube channel
so this is the first time i do this like
live streaming
so and i actually have a tv producer
scott behind the scenes actually helping
me out
so if you want to kind of check it out
what that looks like
on the facebook business page you know
what take a look
let's see all right i'm going to share
my screen and let me know
if you can see it
okay nope that's one one second
share all right
outside can you see the presentation
slide i can
it looks beautiful all right very good
let's get started
how can marketing support sales in the
changing environment
all right if i can get this to work
welcome okay it's a dr evil welcome all
right so
this presentation is going to be evoish
just bear with me it's going to be
badass no i'm kidding it's going to be
fun and casual
and a very quick introduction about me
and i know that if you know me
hear this one more time if this is the
first time really
welcome and my name is pam dinner i help
accelerate marketing's contribution to
sales
so i'm a marketer but really my job
or my forte is looking how we can better
support our sales team
through account based marketing sales
enablement and sales and marketing
alignment
etc and i wrote three and a half books i
know
when i said that eva hates it eva is
actually my social media managers
so i wrote three books one is global
content marketing which is how to scale
content across the regions
the other one is effective sales
enablement how to enable sales as a
marketer
the third is the modern ai marketers is
a short e-book
and i was looking at how artificial
intelligence impacts
the landscape of marketing so
if you are interested check them out
right i do
webinar once a month and i usually have
a series
like you know relevant topics i want to
talk about
and for september october and november i
plan them out already
september today i'm talking about how
marketing
supports sales in a changing environment
october is how to make the most out of
marketing content
for the sales again it's all about sales
you know and the november i want to talk
about how to create
a measurable marketing strategy
obviously 2021 is coming that's think
ahead in terms of what our marketing
plan and the marketing strategy
will look like january i'm thinking
about it
if you have a specific topic that you
want me to address
send it to me let me take a look i'm
more than happy to take
your challenges and your question and
make that as a topic
topic to address to everybody right and
you can register
in pimdento.com forward slash webinars
so go there and register if these topics
are an interest to you so let's talk
about sales and marketing let's
face it we are very different right
sales is from mars marketing is from
venice
doesn't matter we are female or male
right and
we are very different for multiple
reasons
one marketing tends to focus on top of
the funnel
and the sales focuses on the bottom of
and we as marketers we talk about
buyer's journey
sales was like okay what does my sales
stage look like
right and on the marketers we're talking
about end users
and uh sales people are talking about
buyers you talk about buyers they talk
about accounts
and uh we talk about consumers or
customers
kind of like end users as well and a lot
of time if you sell your products in the
b2b marketing world
sales people sometimes talk to dealers
and distributors
who also sell the products on our behalf
does that make sense
you know toyota is great examples if you
think about it
the toyota dealers sell their cars
to us right if you think about the
toyota corporate sales team
they probably focus on all the dealers
and the distributors
their job is not necessarily focusing on
consumers right so
they are massive differences between
marketing and sales
by the way i'm really focused more on
the b2b side of things
on the b2c it's a little bit different
so with that being said i have epiphany
the other day when i was doing this
presentation
and i was thinking all right how are we
going to support
sales you know what is a salesperson
like here is the deal sales
is like an asian parent all right if you
are
asian you know exactly what i'm talking
about
exactly right
no matter what you do oh it's not enough
that's just not enough you got eight
they're gonna ask you why didn't you get
a plus
right and you want a trophy they was
like can you do that three years
straight
okay so nothing we do is good enough
i love my parents dearly but
that's also their mentality okay so with
that being said
sales people are very similar even
though they like you
they are not going to tell you they love
you
none so don't look for their approval
look for their respect all right so
right here
because a lot of people come to me i've
been doing a lot of things for my sales
team
but they're just never happy they will
never be happy
and i know a lot of you listenings are
actually sales peeps
my peeps you know what don't be mad it's
okay i understand you are
you have a quota you have to meet every
single quarter
like every single quarter every single
month is a groundhog's day
right come down to the first day of the
month
the clock starts again right so they are
under a lot of pressure
so they expect us also to help them
to take off some of that pressure right
so
seek their respect not
their approval because
that mentality a lot of time you know
for
us marketers tend to be a people
pleasers so
you have to tell yourself like you are
very good
a lot of time you have to tell yourself
i'm awesome
okay i'm doing a good job and you have
to keep that going does that make sense
otherwise it's unbearable i'm kidding
i'm kidding
but if you are working and supporting
sales and doing the best you can but you
are not getting the recognition you need
let them know at the same time
acknowledge yourself right so with that
being said there are three topics i want
to talk about
the number one is keep keep your friends
close
your sales closer number two
make it all about them it's all about
them
number three close close close
okay so how does that translate you're
like okay that sounds very very good
well how does that translate what you
need to do specifically
number one is really understand their
mindset
number two that's a com comprehend
or understand their sales journey number
three
analyze the sales metrics and i want to
talk about each one of them
in details right number one
that's you can you see
[Laughter]
in the seeds of the dogs you're the fox
okay so you need to stay there
and mix yourself in and what are some of
the ways you can do that
okay number one way of to do that
is to understand them in order to
understand them
you need to ask questions
these are the type of questions you can
ask your sales team
right and it's not like oh how did you
win the deals no how do you handle
rejections
you got rejected every single day by
different reasons
right what are they for those accounts
which you lost should the contacts go
back to the marketing database for
further
further nurturing or should we just drop
them right ask for their point of view
what should we do
with some of the accounts that they lost
should we have a win back
campaign to go after them or maybe in
some cases
that's you know it's not the case that
you can salvage at all
right so ask for the opinion another one
is
you want to build up their ego
what was the biggest deal you closed in
the past five years and ask them
why how they close it get them to talk
and share with them some of their tips
and tricks
okay share with you the tips and tricks
what content do you do you find most
useful right you're asking the sales
team like we create a bunch of content
which one you use and share with
your prospects and the potential
customers
lastly how can you help right
you were like oh my god pam this is like
opening pandora's box
if i do this they are going to give me
like tons of
requests true true
true remember i said
you are you don't have to you are not
going to please them
you want to win the respect right
so the way to actually when their
respect is you don't need to do
everything they ask prioritize
sales requests based on the
organization's needs you know what is
the business objective you want to
accomplish in within your marketing team
can you tie some of the requests back to
what you want to accomplish
you have to look at your budget you have
to look at your resources
right and along with some of the
priorities that your manager assigned to
you
then you determine what are some of the
open overlapping things that you can do
to meet um the
the marketing objective at the same time
help the sales team
right obviously you have limited budget
and finite resources
right you have to explain very clearly
what you can
and can do set expectations upfront
with them and do what you say you will
do
that's the most important things if you
say i'm not only going to do these five
things well make sure you do all these
five
things right so you don't have to do
everything they ask but be very clear
why you pick these objectives or the
tasks
that you want to accomplish and by the
way
i have a youtube channel currently i
have a whopping
whopping 290 subscribers so please
subscribe
and for that marketing questions i talk
about
right here i actually created a video
right here
five questions you can ask your sales
team so check them out
and subscribe that will be greatly
appreciated all right
okay so understand the sales mindset the
number one thing i said just want to
remind everybody
is ask them questions take them out for
a cup of coffee
or you know bring them cookies have a
chat with them
the second way or options or the
approach that you can answer or you can
understand your sales team is hmm
let's talk about this a little bit
differently
so how do we understand our customers
on the b2b realm we create buyers
persona
right we create buyers persona like if
we have to market to cio
we create something called cio charles
and we have one statement about
what is important to charles right we
talk about a little bit of demographics
right here you know where to work
and the family situation blah blah blah
and also some personality traits
right then we have a paragraph talk
about charles lee's the i.t departments
that's the strategy we talk about a job
description
and what he focuses on doing blah blah
blah
right so when we want to understand our
customers
we create a buyer's persona
well what if you want to understand your
sales maybe it's time
to create a sales persona
statement can start with i need bracket
marketing bracket help me to do what
and when right so that's a template i'm
giving you a templates right now
right that's a template in terms of what
statement that you they need marketing
to do what you need to be able to
articulate that
right so right here i talk about some of
the trade they have they are very
results driven they are stressed all the
time but they are highly motivated by
money for example right so i use exactly
the same templates that
i have but i create one for my sales
team right
my sales team focuses on selling what
are the specific products we are selling
solving what kind of issues for our
customers
right they are constantly looking for
new opportunities right and left
right so you write why don't you write
this
write on a statement talking about how
they find leads
right and what kind of content they are
using
right when do they how often they
actually meet their quota
and how long have they been with the
company average
right talk about it right so write it
down the way you understand and when you
write it the writing should give you
clues right here in addition to
leads from marketing so right there you
know that you have to provide leads
our sales to also use prospecting on
social media okay which one
right they go to a networking event they
do cold calling okay they do co-calling
cold callings they probably need script
blah blah blah and they claim that the
best day to connect are tuesdays and
wednesday okay
great great great that means they need
information during those two days
if i need to send anything out i need to
send an hour maybe on monday
to get them ready for tuesdays and
wednesdays oh what do they like they
like case studies they like data sheets
they like competitive guys
okay okay that's good if i create
content let's make sure whatever
marketing content we have
we can probably source and
select those content that they like
and share that with them right so
whatever you
write in the sales persona needs to give
you a
clue and tell you how you can better
support them
if you can actually write a sales
persona in the way that you understand
that means you understand your sales
person
okay so how do we support
in a changing environment and this is
one i asked my
my client to write during well i still
we are still you know in the midst of a
pandemic
but uh back in may and it was i still
let's update your
sales persona you know what has changed
right and then she started writing okay
our sales can attend events
or visit customers in person during
covet
right in addition lead to leads
from marketing they have been using
linkedin extensively and the email to
reach out
oh they also learn how to use zoom okay
that's good right
doing real-time show tale demos have
been a challenge
because they cannot be there in person
so she was really writing in a way that
you know what
this is what i'm seeing right now right
the demo teams
are also revisiting demos they are
trying to redo their demos
so it can be operated by the sales
people through zoom
right oh by the way they are not very
good at any kind of social media so they
just recently took a social learning
lessons
right and they need more templates in
terms of emails to reach out
so you can see this is kind of like a
live document
that she was writing and basically said
this is my observation
and through the writing she starts
thinking
okay i probably need to revisit my the
email templates i created for them
i probably have to understand that the
social selling
that they are taking what are specific
tasks they have to do on linkedin
and what can i do to help them on top of
it
she also wrote our product team is
working hard to add new future
new features tailored for the virtual
communication
right so they are changing their product
at the same time
if that's the case what should marketers
do the messaging will need to change
the sales content needs to change see
you are starting connecting the dots
when you start writing
does that make sense say yes come on
guys
so this is a living document and this is
what you need to do
right to understand yourselves and
understand their mindset this is not
over yet this was done like literally
back in may
right whenever she has new information
she updated
so in a changing environment you need to
create
or update or refresh a sales persona the
way
you understand don't take someone else's
write your own right you have to attend
sales huddle meetings if they have it on
regular basis sometimes they don't want
marketing people to attend but you need
to explain why you need to be there
right you need to stay on top of uh the
strategic account engagements
how we doing right use your
collaboration tool to gather
intelligence from them
right and then stay up-to-date on the
sales dashboards i will talk a little
bit more about that
okay seriously this is how you're going
to feel
all the time that's how i feel
supporting skills so if you are
frustrated and you feel like oh my god
it's overwhelming i want to tell you
something everyone
everybody feels this way everybody
okay so because of that that's even more
important you have to tell yourself you
are awesome
okay otherwise you'll be drinking a lot
i'm talking about drinking a lot of tea
guys
what are you thinking
[Laughter]
anyway all right are you guys having fun
if you are having fun making some
comments
on the on the chat that elsa and evanno
that would be
greatly appreciated okay
okay that's the first topic right
second one make it all about them
okay if you want to make it all about
them again you need to understand how
they sell
how they sell the products that's sales
just
learning see this is what you need to do
for your sales people right mailing dog
awesome how do you do that
you were like god damn it how do i do
that well
structure information in the way they
can
understand there's not much to it
you want to actually make them look good
you have to think through
like the way that you communicate with
them
right from a marketing perspective is
structure
the content the way they can understand
and they can comprehend
for example let me be very specific
about this
sales journey on the b2b site if you are
selling technology product or even
manufacturing product
you know what i'm talking about right
you contact
a prospect you have to qualify them
especially on the sales side we're
saying you know this is the right person
that possibly will buy our product
and if it's kind of like a right person
and they are showing high interest
then they probably will say you know
what for your product i want to see a
demo i want to see how that works
right it's not very similar i buy in a
car you want to see how the car works
right and if if they ask they look at
the product say yep this is
exactly what we need and you send a
proposal to them they sign the proposal
they close it
that's really how salespeople thinking
about selling okay
contact person qualify them do a demo
set up a proposal close it
of course this sounds very very easy and
these steps
change the steps change from industry to
industry from companies to company
so you you need to understand
how your company sales people sell and
create something like that
it doesn't have to be like you track
every single thing they do
make it kind of like high level 607
right stages
the next things is for each sales stages
can you ask them some questions
or based on your understanding right
right
so for each sales stages what uh
questions that sales people ask during
the contact stage
right what kind of content they use to
convince that person to move to a next
stage
right so if they do encounter some
challenges
at that specific stage what are they
right how do they what do they do
in addition to uh wine and dye i'm
kidding
or other tactics that they do
what do they do to move the prospect to
the next stage
you know also what channel do they use
to communicate right do they do email
all the time do they call
do they do the visits and also what's
the frequency
once you have those information you
should be able to do this
right so during the contact stage they
will need some pre-engagement script
they want to know what they talked about
they also do quite a bit of research
using a different tools out there
discover
discover.org or sales navigator on
linkedin or whatever tool they use to
understand and
find out additional information about
the prospect
right and they will they will need some
product sheets and thinking through in
terms of
that specific customer and for that
specific account what kind of technology
they are using right now what kind of
technology
that we are we have that can actually
fit their needs
right and of course they need to
communicate with them so they need the
email templates
right qualified they probably need a
sales script etc
right here so i am writing couple things
down and this
is the way i'm writing from my
perspective as a marketer
what kind of things that they need
does that make sense all right so with
that being said
there's another way that you can
structure the information
the way that they understand right so
now you have the sales stages now you
understand what they do
then you can think through and say okay
they need
sales script do i need to create that or
someone else is doing it
they need email template of course
that's something that uh email marketing
that many uh marketers are taking leads
on that
in terms of marketing uh email marketing
to our prospects or customers
right so can you write some script or
the templates for them to use
with that being said there's another way
that you can structure the information
to share with them again this is based
on
one of my clients their uh sales stages
right it's a sas based platform
and uh so they actually have some sort
of pilot
after they do a demo they have to do
some sort of pilot first
before they can actually buy right so
they have to do a pilot they have to do
evaluation so we look at it very closely
my client and i in terms of what kind of
content
that the sales people may need right
during the prospect
and qualify stage they might need some
thought leadership content
they probably need some product
information as well right
it found the pilot prep right so there
are users that needs to be enrolled
so that they can actually do a pilot so
they have online enrollment forms
etc right so you listed
that the different content pieces that
sales people may
need for each stage
sales are not going to use every single
one of them
and you are not going to like hit the
perfect score with them
but this specific slide actually is good
in a way that you give them some ideas
what some of the contents are out there
that they can use
does that make sense so if they don't
have to take this and basically say oh
yeah this is it this is all the content
i use that's not the point
this is a recommendation to get them
started
right so this is
great and you have to do this if your
products are complicated and you have a
lot of products and a product
and a lot of brands you probably have to
do this the sales stage
sales stages by persona maybe by
vertical
maybe by different countries does that
make sense so you have to think it
through this
i'm sharing a template with you but you
need to think it through in terms of how
you want to categorize it
right like i said if a product you might
sell like multiple different products
and multiple different solutions
if that's the case you might need a
different sheet
to talk about the products and for
different verticals or for different
persona
okay and this is for map
see this existing content
right so if you have a future content
that you are working on you can also say
future content
and what would that be and you can map
that and you can share with your sales
team
in advance and say hey this is coming
just want to let you know this is coming
right
again this template you can use exactly
the same thing
for the current environment so how does
this journey change has
changed in the virtual communications
right update that same thing you
probably are looking to create
new type of demos right how does your
existing content change
has changed due to the current
environment or due to the extensive
virtual communications update that
i know i know when i by the time i get
to this stage
all the marketers that when i presented
this at the section they're like
pam do you know
that this is a lot of work
i know
i've been doing it i know how much work
it is
that's why i'm talking about drinking a
lot of tea all right
there's a reason behind it
yes it is work and uh i hate saying this
um everybody always want to come to me
and looking for shortcuts there's none
you have to do the work as far as i can
tell
okay and i tried to do
shortcuts in the past i always come back
end up doing the work
you have to understand the sales stages
you have to understand your sales
mindset
you have to understand them otherwise
you cannot support them
you know i did that actually the early
years of me supporting sales
i just say oh this is marketing content
and i just passed to them
as the list of the content that we
created but i didn't structure
the way that they understand so they
don't use it
or they just come back to me all the
time and say hey i'm doing this can you
send me the content
that's because i didn't explain the way
they understand
right so it does take a lot of time so
if you want to simplify a little bit
okay the one i share with you like oh my
god that's so much work you are killing
me
i know do you guys know um comedian her
name is ellie wong
okay so if you guys are only into like
comedies that's
she's not pg-13 at all she's actually
quite dirty
so um so i watch her stand-up
comedies on netflix
and then she was talking about you know
cheryl sandberg
like wrote this book about lean in like
you know for females
like we we want to climb like covert
letters
and get people to notice us we have to
lean in
and she was like i don't want to lean in
i just want to lie down
[Laughter]
i know supporting sales that's exactly
how i feel all the time
i want to lie down
so with that being said if you don't
have a sales
stages right maybe what you can do this
is a much
simplified version of uh providing
information to sales
right maybe you can say top of the
funnel you have like a five list of
content the middle funnels you know you
have about 10 15 pieces of content the
bottom of funnel so this is kind of like
marketing and you can say sales entry
content
right there right so it's actually you
can create a simplified version of it if
you want to
uh in terms of showing like the content
between sales and marketing
by the way i will talk about this
specific topic in depth
all right in october webinar
so if you are interested come and
register
so have you noticed there is a thread
and a train
a theme that i'm talking about right now
you need to think like a salesperson
that is the biggest takeaway for me
by supporting sales i need to
think like them okay
with that being said
next things close close close
all right so this gif is i don't know if
everybody can see this is alec bowen my
god look at how young he
is like my son was like is that your
like bowen
and so when my son was born you know
like when he watches saturday night live
right so he always like portrayed
president trump
and um my son just never seen like
ellie bowen this young and i was like
yup that's ellie girl right
and i don't know any one of you have
watching this movie
back in 1992 glengarry glenn ross
and uh he was talking to like the four
very sad salespeople right
and that he came to the office and tried
to motivate or threaten them
and this is what he said right and that
dialogue struck with me big time say
hey as you all know the first prize
is a cadillac
and the second price anybody want to
know
the second price is a it's a set of
steak knives well guess what the third
price is
you are fired right so he
i'm not doing a very good job right but
he was doing a fantastic job
in the movie and really talking about
the pressure
of a salespeople right you either on the
top of the you know
on the on the top rank if not you know
what
it's hard right so sales people are
always thinking about close close close
right so how do you help them you are
not going to do
their jobs the only way from my
perspective
and what i can suggest to you that you
can do better job for them
is to know their tool better than your
sales rep
okay that means the cim tools you have
to study your data and
bring the insights to your sales people
or using the data
to actually modify your marketing
efforts
so here's what i'm talking about i have
very specific example to share with you
right so here's a very typical sales
dashboard
right you have a one opportunities you
have lost opportunities
and you have like the win-loss ratios
you have a forecast
the next several months and then you are
talking about the pipelines
what are the different pipelines and
different stages blah blah blah blah
right
we have seen like a different versions
of the sales dashboard
it's like this right you've seen it and
a lot of time people presented at the
huddle meeting and then we all move on
right what i have noticed and what i did
in the past is i will take for example
lost opportunity chart
right if you take a chart like this it
was like okay there's a bunch of lots of
opportunities um passed in the past six
months
uh due to the timing due to the budget
due to weather authority due to price
there's a lot of reasons
right and get this chart again you're
like okay fine that's good and then you
move on
but what you really need to do you have
to
go be means to understand what accounts
are actually lost
and why why you know you don't have to
like if you have 5000 accounts i'm not
asking you to
study all 5000 of them but understand
probably top 25 accounts that the
salespeople focus
right i lost our
lost opportunity part of a specific
vertical is it because we focus on
the the healthcare we make the
transition to healthcare
and we are not paying attention to
manufacturing segments and that's why we
are losing the counts
you know is it any pattern that you can
track
and do we lose accounts you know in the
last mile or very early
stage right and another thing is what
kind of content they consistently
consume right that doesn't mean our
content
make them you know um not selecting us
but what are some of the content that
you know they always like consume
right and for those people for those
accounts we lost
should we run some sort of win back
campaigns
is that a chance to win them back
right so you cannot you cannot
answer all those questions by looking at
this chart right here
you can't you literally have to go
behind the scenes
right you have to work with someone to
look at those
uh data and another thing is a chan uh
churn rate
and if you don't know what genre is
let's assume if your existing customer
is 500 500 counts but by the end of this
year you only got 400
accounts right the term rate is 20
that means the turnover of your existing
customer is 20 that means you lost 20
of your customers right let's say
there's
20 percent of customers do not renew the
contract
you have to understand why do you little
research
and the the key things is for sas based
platf
forms you can actually check their usage
in the past probably a couple of years
some of them use extensively they still
cancel the contract
well maybe they don't have budget can
you can marketing off a discount
or maybe first uh six months free again
right if they if they if you look at the
usage they have not been using in the
past two years
well maybe we didn't do a good job
training them so maybe can we reach out
to them
and do another training and see if we
can have a chance to win them back
right so you have to do your research
and talk to the sales people
and you may argue with me that's not my
job pam
yes and no
because a lot of time when you do that
kind of research you can identify what
marketing can do to help
maybe we should set up renewal
notifications a little earlier
maybe we should create our content a
little bit differently
does that make sense so i do agree with
you
that a lot of stuff i'm talking about
may not be your
job if you work in a big enterprise i
get it
but understand well actually
understanding that
will actually do your job better
all right okay with that being said
this is another thing i want to share
with you review and comprehend the
skills dashboard
and when i say review and comprehend i
really mean study
like how you study in the college that's
how you should study
the dashboard understand how numbers and
ratios are calculated
and a lot of time you don't have the
capability i don't
to understand salesforce right so i
partner myself
with the ci and admin or the data
analyst to do the work
right so i try to analyze the data and
understand
what i can do and use that information
either share the insight to the sales
team
go back to them and tell them what you
what your discoveries are
or you use that information to make your
marketing
better okay
all right
similarities between sales and marketing
so i talked about that we are very very
different but at the end of the day we
are also very similar
right we want to facilitate the purchase
cycles we want them to become our
customers
we want to drive conversion it doesn't
doesn't matter is
our uh purchase funnel or sales stages
we want to move them forward we want to
increase our conversions
and if our products are complicated or
our products are new
uh in the industry we want to educate
them and be very helpful to them
at the end of the day we all doing the
job trying to solve their problems
right that's our goal so that's the
similarities between
us and everything i share with you is
coming from a sales mindset
understand the sales metrics understand
the sales journey
understand um you know how they think
you might ask well pam
that's not really marketing what can
i do really you know from legion's
perspective
yes you can do something well now let's
talk about very specific marketing
things that you can do
you can clearly type and this is about
timing the lead definition to online
experience
right and uh
most of the time when i talk to
different clients
and they have mql which is marketing
qualified leads they have
sal which is sales accepted lead but
when i asked
the definition uh what is mql definition
a lot of them will tell me they based on
least score
you reach uh you reach a lease scoring
of 85
and you pass that to the sales team but
that's a very
kind of like um vague
and uh squishy right it's not very
actionable it's not very clear
that's why the way that you define mql
is very critical because a lot of time
the sales people will
complain about the quality of your mql
because they cannot move things
forward it's not high quality enough
what if you define your mql
incredibly clear and this is from lead
genius right
so anybody who actually come they see as
mql
is pre-qualified that means that the
person
or the prospect already been qualified
based on their ideal customer profile
and at the same time they raise the hand
and say
they want to see a demo this is
very very specific right this mql is
very strict
it has to qualify the sales criteria
and they also need to raise hands say i
want to see a demo
otherwise it's not by the way i'm going
to say that one more time
is not mql
and there's no confusion what mql is
and this is a hard task for marketing
right and then you also have to have a
hard conversation with the sales team
say
if this is something i have to do then
we need to reduce number of the mqls i
100 agree
right so it's a quality versus quality
discussion
does that make sense with that
that will also drive what i call online
experience
because of that definition is so clear
and the marketing feel the pressure they
need to perform
now look at the website this is the lead
genius website
it made it very clear they may request a
demo
number one action
request for demos on the top nav bar
request for demos literally on the
marquee banner
right there's a reason behind it why
the definition do you see it
that's marketing's job right
talking about mql how important that is
if you look at salesforce they are
aggressive
contact us on the top 1855 number
on the top right start a free
trial right there under my key banner
right contact us
on the bottom then they have a pop-up
after you walk on the website for 20
seconds
they have a pop and say need help
contact us have you noticed it is not
1855 number
it's one a four four number so they are
using two different number
to see which one converts better
again putting sales first
they are looking for conversions so
your definition of mql
will drive in terms of how you
communicate online
does that make sense and this is a
marketing task
so to when their respect you need to
think
like a salesperson and you need to
understand their pain points
and try to help them but not like you
have to do all their tasks
and to satisfy all their requests that's
not my point
you help them strategically right know
their tools better than they do
provide value whenever you can't then
find a way to a salary conversions
within the boundary or the job that you
can do
digital marketing requires every one of
us
it doesn't matter you are doing email
marketing or even marketing if you are
doing email marketing chances are you're
doing email marketing for your event
managers
anyway so you need to think beyond your
roles and responsibility this is very
very critical
you have to think beyond your roles and
responsibility not just do your jobs
anymore and by the way it is a lot of
work to support sales
fat amy agrees with me okay
she agrees with me it's a lot of work
i'm not saying it's not
i'm giving you the templates i'm sharing
with you
and uh even when i work with my clients
my clients was like
pam you are killing me i know i know
i don't mean to do that but it is work
so if you have any questions sales or
marketing or
simply just want to have a therapy
session right join my facebook community
build your marketing skills to get ahead
all right so when you join go to
announcements
there's a barcode i put in
you can get a free toe starbucks on me
so check it out check it out if you are
interested join the facebook community
whenever you ask
any questions i answer them personally
so and here's what i do i do speaking
i do speaking online so if you actually
have any workshop and training
reach out and i tailor my presentations
for you
and your company any kind of one-on-one
mentoring and coachings i do
that for quite a bit of aspiring young
marketers and also very seasoned
traditional
uh marketing professionals and a lot of
stuff i do
is more on the sales side and it's
really working very closely with
marketing people to enable their sales
team through content marketing sales
enablement account based marketing even
marketing technology planning and also
mapping
all right so with that being said
that's the end of my presentation i hope
to see you in my facebook community
and the next webinar
is that good so elsa does anybody have
any question
no no questions on the facebook
community
or in youtube um but maybe they will
pop up a little bit later in the day
once everybody's watched the stream
okay very very good anybody have any
questions uh
like in the zoom i know there are quite
a bit of people register
can you check on the chat and q and a
everything good
okay good all right
very good hey thank you so much for
coming to my webinar
i hope that's useful and if you have any
questions you know where to reach me
alright take care bye-bye